# Collaborating with Developers

Prerequisite: [Git](https://git-scm.com/mac)

---

# Agenda

* What is Open Data, Open Source?
* Tools
    * Etherpad/Google Docs
    * Git
    * Trello
    * CKAN
    * Postman

Note:
Before I begin, how many of you are developers, or have done a bit of coding? Good, not too many.

---

> Open means anyone can freely access, use, modify, and share for any purpose (subject, at most, to requirements that preserve provenance and openness).
- Open Knowledge International

Note:
Open, at least according to Open Knowledge International, means anyone can freely access, use, modify and share for any purpose the concent, data or software in question. Both the Open Source Definition and Free Software Definition are quite closely aligned, but do differ from, the above - for all intents and purposes, we can treat these as mutually interchangeable.

---

# Prominent open source software

* Linux
* CKAN
* Git
* Wordpress
* Node.js
* Most programming languages (Go, Python, R)

Note:
By show of hands, how many people have used an Android phone, or any of the federal or state level data portals? Written a blog? 

---

# Open Data

* Typically generated by governments
* Sometimes crowd-sourced
* Large, unwieldy, full of unknown unknowns
* Varying quality and consistency
* Stored in data portals, like CKAN

---

# What is version control?

* Content - a file tree filled with documents
* An index - a recording of all the versions of the content (this can be your brain)
* A pointer to the current version

---

# What's Git?
* Version Control System
* Created in 2005, for Linux kernel developers
* Decentralized
* _fast_

---?image=https://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/git.png

---
# How to avoid problems with Git?
* work on separate files
* commit frequently
* communicate

---

# What is an API?

* A set of rules that define how a  program or service talks to the outside world
* GET me the phone number for X
* Do something with this - POST
* PUT this somewhere
* DELETE this
* UPDATE that
Try it: [https://data.gov.au/api/3/]

Tool: [Postman](https://getpostman.com)

Note:
A simple way of interacting with a program,service or library. Very much analogous to the external phone numbers of a company - the internal workings of the company require knowledge of it, you might even need to know the desk number of a person to talk to them. Support lines and public relations contacts need to be accessible to everyone, so a company will publish a small number of well-described numbers. Here's an example - data.gov.au
